All right. Hi, Nathan. So thank you for sitting down with me. Can you give a quick intro of yourself and your internship?
Sure. I'm Nathan Odegon.
I'm a software engineering student,
co-op student at McGill.
During summer 25, I interned at
Intact Financial Corporation as a test automation developer.
It was actually my second co-op.
My first one was at Ericsson the year before.
So at Intact, I was in a project called Contract UBI,
where the team was migrating
their usage-based insurance module from
an older XML-based system to
a newer one built on Java and Spring Boot.
So my main job was building a web app called UBI Tools that let QA engineers run automated tests
against the insurance services and compare results side by side to spot regressions
during the migration. The front end was angular and the backend was Node.js.
Alright, perfect. So today I want to focus on defect resolution during development. So can you start by giving me a typical example of how a bug would come up and get dealt with on your team?
Sure, yeah.
The most common pattern for me was pretty straightforward I'd say.
I'd push my code changes to GitHub and the Jenkins pipeline would run automatically.
And if any tests broke, the build would fail and I'd get notified right away.
So most of the time the issue would be something like a mismatch between what the frontend
expected from the backend or a problem with how it was handling the XML data before sending
it to the entrance platform.
So I would look at the test output, figure out what went wrong and fix it logically, then push again and try again.
If the build passed but the behavior still seemed a little bit off, I'd put up a pull request and a teammate would review it.
They would sometimes spot things that I've missed,
for example, an edge case and the comparison logic,
or maybe a situation where the code couldn't handle
an empty response properly.
I would then address the comments, push the fix,
and it would get approved and merged.
The whole thing from finding the bug to closing it
was usually less than a day.
And having the automated pipeline meant
that I got feedback very fast, so things didn't pile up.
Alright, nice. So now, can you tell me more about the specific case that felt like a real success and how the defect was found and fixed?
The one I remember best was when I was connecting UBI tools to Intacct's internal test dashboard called UTA.
I wrote an adapter that would take UBI tools test results
and format them so that UTA could display them.
When I first ran it, everything showed up on the dashboard,
but every single test was marked as passed,
even the ones that had clearly failed in the UBI tools.
So I caught myself while rehearsing for a demo,
I was walking through a workflow with some tests that were supposed to fail,
and when I switched over to UTA Dashboard, it was all green.
Obviously that was wrong.
So I went back to the adapter code and traced through how I was translating the result statuses.
It turned out that I had a typo in a string comparison.
So I was checking for fail instead of failed.
So the condition never matched and everything
defaulted to pass.
It was a small, kind of embarrassing mistake.
But the important thing was that I caught it before the actual demo,
otherwise it would have been embarrassing.
I fixed it, ran it again with a mix of passing and failing tests
to make sure the dashboard showed up the right statuses.
And then I added a unit test for that mapping logic
so that the same kind of thing couldn't happen
and I couldn't slip through again.
The whole process from catching the bug to having it fixed and tested
took about less than two hours, I'd say.
Okay, nice. So that was a real success on your part. But on the other side, can you describe a case that was more of a failure, where a defect wasn't caught the way you would have wanted?
Yeah, okay, so this one kind of stuck with me.
The core feature of UBI tools was the comparison view, right?
You pick two test runs and the tool shows you exactly
what changed between the responses.
It worked by parsing the XML responses field by field
and flagging differences.
I had it working well for most of the endpoints
I was testing, but late in the internship,
a developer on the team told me that the comparison
was showing false positives
for one of the discount calculation endpoints.
it was flagging fields as different
even when the actual values hadn't changed.
So that was weird.
When I looked into it,
the problem was floating point precision.
So the discount endpoint returned decimal numbers
in its responses.
And JavaScript sometimes stores a value,
for example, take 0.10, 0.10,
as 0.1 with 13 zeros and a one internally.
So there's a mismatch there.
So when the tool compared that 0.10 against another response,
it flagged them as different even though they were effectively the same value.
The frustrating part in that is that floating point precision is something I already knew about,
I learned about that, and every developer runs into it at some point.
So I just never thought to account for it in the comparison logic
because of all the testing I've been doing was using whole numbers.
So the bug had been sitting in the code for weeks
before anyone actually noticed that,
before it happened to anyone when testing the endpoint.
And the fix was simple.
I added a rounding step for numeric fields
before comparing them.
But during those weeks, QA engineers had been using the tool and might have just been trusting results that were slightly wrong, I guess.
I should have tested with a wider variety of data types from the start, not just the ones I happened to be working with.
So yeah, I guess you learned from that simple mistake.
But was this defect reported through JIRA or did it come up informally?
Yeah, so it actually came up informally.
The developer mentioned it during a stand-up meeting.
But we actually had a Jira workflow in place,
so I created a bug ticket that same day with a description,
with the steps to reproduce it, which endpoints it affected, blah blah blah.
My supervisor, Javier, saw it in the backlog and pulled it into the current sprint.
Having that ticket meant the fix was tracked properly,
and anyone looking at the code later could trace the commit back to the Jira ticket,
and then understand why the rounding logic was there.
I've come to think that kind of traceability is very important
since you want the next person who reads the code
to be able to understand why a decision was made
and not just what was changed.
Okay, nice.
So let's end off with this.
So if you could change one thing about how defects
were handled during your internship, what would it be?
That's a good question.
I think I push for broader test coverage across different types of data early on.
And I make that part of the checklist for finishing a feature.
rather than something that only happens when someone stumbles across a problem.
The floating point bug that I faced only got caught because one specific developer happened to test one specific endpoint.
So if nobody had used that endpoint during my internship, the bug would have shift with the tool.
So a more deliberate approach, for example, sitting down and asking what kinds of data does this feature actually need to handle,
and then writing tests for each kind of data before calling it done, would have caught that much earlier.
It would have been a better option.
All right. So thank you, Nathan, for today.
Thank you for attending this interview and hope you have a nice day.
No worries. My pleasure. Have a nice day.